 2014 was declared the year of solidarity with the Palestinian people, and nowhere is this being taken more seriously than in South Africa. From ordinary individuals, to civil society, and those in the highest echelons of power, South Africa’s message to the Palestinian people is: “Your struggle is our struggle.” In successive State of the Nation addresses since 2010, and during a press conference last year with US president Barack Obama, President Zuma openly stated: “We are with the Palestinians.” Actions, however, speak louder than words, and on Thursday 6 Feb, people from all walks of life gathered in the same parliamentary halls where Apartheid politicians once sat, to attend the Parliamentary Solidarity Conference. The conference, hosted by the South African Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on International Relations and Co-operation, is the first of its kind in Parliament. The aim of the conference was to produce a practical, action-oriented strategy that could be suggested to the South African Parliament, so that the solidarity campaigns for Palestine, Western Sahara and Cuba could be taken forward. Following messages of solidarity by anti-apartheid icon Ahmed Kathrada and various parliamentarians and civil society representatives, breakaway groups discussed the key question of how to intensify the struggle for self-determination and bring about a lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Marthie Momberg of Kairos Southern Africa, an ecumenical voice on local and international issues of justice from within the broader Christian community, called on the South African government to adopt complete military, diplomatic and financial sanctions against Israel until it complies with all applicable United Nations (UN) resolutions and international law, and ends the occupation. Kairos also asked that the South African government table this at both the African Union (AU) and the UN.  Momberg also asked that all political parties in South Africa clearly communicate their stance on Israel timeously, in the build-up to the 2014 elections in South Africa. “It was such an enormous privilege to see how people from different political parties and backgrounds interact with one another. Their support for Cuba, Palestine and Western Sahara was not driven by political, religious or cultural interests, but by our shared humanity. We want to be free, and we want it also for others,” said Momberg. To date, there has been no reaction from the Israeli Embassy,  or Israel’s chief lobby groups in South Africa: the South African Jewish Board of Deputies and the South African Zionist Federation. One Palestinian Man’s Reading of Susan Abulhawa’s My Voice Sought The Wind Preserving the Abu Ghraib Culture: The Harrowing Abuse of Iraqi Women I thank South Africa from the bottom of my heart. May the Palestinians finally achieve freedom and civil rights…